---
title: "Tempeh"
date: 2024-02-12T08:00:00.000Z
draft: false
tags: [tempeh]
dateStart: 2024-02-12T08:00:00.000Z
dateEnd: 2024-02-14T08:00:00.000Z
fermentType: Tempeh
status: Complete
---

1. Soak 2 cups soybeans for 12 to 24 hours.
2. Cook in instant pot, 27 minutes plus natural release.
3. Heat and dry on stove.
4. Add vinegar and let the beans cool to around 95 degrees Fahrenheit.
5. Add tempeh starter powder, mix throughout carefully, without breaking up the beans too much
6. Punch holes in the ziploc bags. I punch a hole about every half inch.
7. Pack the beans into ziploc bags and make into sandwich-like thickness.
8. Place the bags in the dehydrators at 95 degrees for 24 hours.
9. After 24 hours, turn off the dehydrator. The beans should be able to keep themselves warm, as the ferment is active. Let sit another 24 or so hours until they're solid and done.

## Cost Analysis

This recipe is for two cups of dried soybeans, which yields 925g grams of tempeh.

- Beans: $0.15[^1]
- Culture: $3.5[^2]
- Plastic baggies: $0.10
- Total: $3.75

A local brand of tempeh is packaged in 230g blocks and costs $6.
To compare, the house-made tempeh is $0.93 for the same amount of tempeh.

## Areas for Improvement

- Use something non-plastic for the wrappers, like banana leaves or corn husks.
- Make the soybeans in more quantity. Right now the limiting factor is that the Instant Pot can only make 2 cups of soybeans at once, and making the soybeans on the stove takes many hours.
- Find a budget-friendly tempeh starter.

[^1]: Price from [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Soymerica-Non-GMO-Soybeans-Identity-Preserved/dp/B0763GC8SB?crid=RE14YQSNJYW4&keywords=soy+beans+dry&qid=1707888612&sprefix=soy+beans,aps,133&sr=8-4)
[^2]: The starter I'm currently using is not very budget friendly, and I'm going to move to buying in more bulk.
